---
layout: post
title: "Dogescript 2.4"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Howdy everyone, 2020 was a wild ride. If you're reading this, hang in there. Side note, sorry for the radio silence and not keeping up with "State of Doge", things got a bit hectic and lost track. Don't worry though, work on your favorite language progressed.

Today, we're glad to announce the first release candidate for `2.4.0`. 

## What's Changed

A lot, like alot [alot](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_D_Z-D2tzi14/S8TRIo4br3I/AAAAAAAACv4/Zh7_GcMlRKo/s1600/ALOT.png). 

See the [2.4.0-rc1](https://github.com/dogescript/dogescript/releases/tag/2.4.0-rc1) release with the notes on everything that has changed.

Feel free to head on over to the [Try Online](/live) page as well, which has been updated with the 2.4.0-rc1 tag. Here's a quick highlight of some of the new cooler features.

### Classes

dogescript now supports classes, declare them with `classy` and extend them with `grows`:

```dogescript
classy Shape
wow

classy Square grows Shape
wow

very sq is new Square

```

More indepth doc for classes can be found in [classes](https://github.com/dogescript/dogescript/blob/master/LANGUAGE.md#classes) section of the spec.

### Operators/Expressions

Operators were fixed to work almost everywhere, except in ambiguous cases. A couple of new ones `like` and `same` were added to get around some ambiguity when using `is` in certain conditionals.

A couple of new ones, `giv` and `levl` are used to access [properties](https://github.com/dogescript/dogescript/blob/master/LANGUAGE.md#expressions).

Some additional ones, like `bigify` and `smallified` were added to support those fancy pre/post arithmetic operations.

For a full list of new operators, check the [operators](https://github.com/dogescript/dogescript/blob/master/LANGUAGE.md#operators) section of the spec.

### Module Support

Exporting of modules has been added, [woof](https://github.com/dogescript/dogescript/blob/master/LANGUAGE.md#exports) to your heart's content.

### Invocation Enhancements

Better chaining support was added with a new keyword, `thx` which should remove some of the awkwardness of having to use the `&plz` style syntax with multiple lines.

```
plz foo with a b thx dose bar with c d
```

On that note, a bunch of the syntax was improved to try to have things be called in a single line. 3 spaces is no longer needed (and won't be supported, say goodbye to `truedoge` mode in the future).

Returning values was also enhanced to not require `wow [return]` style syntax. The `amaze` keyword supports multiple expressions after it, where as the `wow` style return was limited to a single expression, to avoid breaking many things. This new keyword is particularly useful when trying to use a function call as the return.


```dogescript
such fib much n
amaze plz foo with bar
wow

such fib2 much n
shh this next bit doesn't do the same thing
wow plz foo with bar
```

The `amaze` example will create valid javscript, while the `wow` example would break invocations.


```javascript
function fib(n) {
    return foo(bar);
}

function fib2(n) {
    return plz foo with bar;
}
```

### Repl Enhancements

The `REPL` got a couple of enhancements. 

`dogescript --run file.djs` can now run the source!

`.plz-load` within the repl can load a source file into the environment
`.plz-exit` will exit the repl (mostly useful on windows where CTRL+C isn't handled greatly)

## Testing Focus

Give the release candidate a shot, uplift your existing 2.3 code and let us know what breaks. There's a couple of things left in our backlog before 2.4.0 is ready, but we felt having a release candidate out to play with would be nice.

Regards,
the dogescript crew
